The question is,
do you need import React from react?
The answer is no.
But I'll show you that in just a second.
So we went through all the JS Tools, and
we're now pretty set up to get going and
off to the races with our now build step.
We don't have to do too much
with setting up tooling anymore.
So basically what we
did here is we more or
less set up our own
Create React App environment.
What we did is basically what
Create React App does for
you it has a little bit more
we haven't set up TypeScript.
Nothing really needs to do much more for
that.
We didn't set up testing, but
JS is pretty easy to set up.
And again, both of those are an
intermediate react if you want to learn
them anyway.
Suffice to say that's more or
less what Create React App does for you.
But now you know what it does for
you instead of being some mystery, Okay so
let's hop into JSX here.
Again there's a kind of a cut
point here that you can go to at
the Enter browsers list you
can go to this 02-js-tools.
And then I'll take you to like the state
of the world now which is like all
the build tools are now set up.
So far we've been writing react
without any sort of build step, right,
we've just been writing it
directly with React.Createelement.
Let me tell you that I'm gonna say most, I
will I want to say like 95% but let's just
go with most react developers don't even
know that React.createElement is a API.
They probably never heard of it before.
That's because you're never gonna
write it again after I show you JSX.
Because JSX basically takes,
HTML and translate it into these
React.createElement calls you just
don't never have to worry about.
So let me show you what I'm talking about.
Let's start with pet because like pets
really a simple component, right?
There's not a lot to this.
So, to the former question that was asked,
do you need to import
React from react here?
It used to be before
the most recent version of
the React JSX transform from Babel.
That any word that you wrote JSX you
had to import react from react even if
you weren't explicitly using it,
because the code that we're about
to write with JSX would
translate to this code, right?
We're going to rewrite this in JSX.
You won't see react anywhere anymore,
but you used to have to have it there.
Now it's smart enough to say like okay
if you're using JSX here I'm gonna
important now.
So you can actually drop line one here but
just know underneath the hood it actually
is still there it's just being put in
there by your tools instead
of having to do it yourself.
I'm just going to comment this out so
you can kind of see what it
looks like when we rewrite it but
we're going to rewrite this in JSX.
So const Pet = props is the function here.
So let's talk about this for a second.
Here we are writing JavaScript and
that JavaScript is imitating HTML, right?
You're writing divs and
inside of the divs there's an h1 and
inside of the h1 there's
a name right it's XML right.
We're basically writing XML because HTML
is XML, I know XML is like a triggering
word for some of us present company
included but that's what HTML is right.
So if we're writing
JavaScript to mimic HTML,
wouldn't it be nice if we could
just write HTML instead of
having this translation in
our brain from JavaScript?
Well, basically, you think of
HTML then you write JavaScript,
which then outputs HTML.
It'd be nice if we could just write HTML,
and skip that middle a cognitive step.
That is the point of JSX is it allows
us to skip the middle cognitive step.
So instead of writing this,
I want you to say return.
And we're gonna put a div here,
just directly into our code.
And then we're gonna put an h1 here.
Gonna use curly braces to signify that
like I want to output code here right so
props.name.
Props.animal.
Props.breed these two things
do exactly the same thing.
Now let's kind of dissect let's talk
about our feelings for a second.
Like if you've been a developer as long
as I have, we spent years and years, and
years trying to get
JavaScript out of our HTML.
So why the hell are we sticking
HTML into our JavaScript?
Right seems like kind of a an inversion
of what we were trying to like back from
the prototype and Moodle tools and
previous times to that, right.
You just put your OnClickListener
directly in HTML and it was a mess.
So, why are we doing this
in kind of in reverse?
And it's just exactly,
what I'm telling you right now that,
it allows us to kind of skip
that cognitive overhead.
This gets translated to this precisely.
If you go look to the compiled code,
I don't think it looks
any different from this.
It might actually literally
be precisely this.
It just makes everything more readable,
and more obvious, and
there's no magic here.
JSX is not doing anything more than this.
It's just a thin layer
of sugar on top of it.
I wanna give you one more
kind of high sort of kinda
concept about how to write React.
If you've ever written things like
backbone, it's like the principal one that
I can think of, we used to have
this model and view and controller.
And if you've ever written
things like Django or rails or
something like that it's
a very common practice.
When I was starting writing HTML code, we
basically just shoved everything about all
of our JavaScript and our HTML and
CSS all together in one file.
And they were giant messes and
they were like 900 lines,
and it was spaghetti code and
was really difficult to pull apart.
And so some wise people that created
Backbone came along and said,
hey, this works really well on the server
to have this Model View Controller.
Let's pull everything apart and
put them into different areas and
that's how we're gonna
write our JavaScript code.
And so they did that for
a while so that Backbone came out.
Marionette was on top of that, that
made it a lot nicer to write backbone.
We had angular, we had ember and
those were kind of the,
knockout was another good one as well.
These kind of JavaScript frameworks
that came along that adopted this kind
of server side paradigm and it was better.
There was a big difference the problem
with that when you had a like a bug and
backbone you have to traverse
a model of view, and
a view controller to figure
out what happened, right?
You have to jump between a lot
of files and go back and forth.
So we were trying to separate concerns,
right.
That's the point of like, this does
one thing, this does one thing, and
this does one thing.
And you really hope that if there's
a problem with the data that it was with
the model, that wasn't always true.
It could have been with
the view controller,
it could have been with the view and
how they were connected.
And so the concerns were never separated
and these are all their frameworks, right?
It was always across multiple files,
it was always difficult to pull apart.
React kinda came along and
they rethought this paradigm of,
what if we're thinking about separation
of control along the wrong axes, right?
Instead of having trying to separate
artificially these concerns that don't
really exist in the browser, like we're
not reading two databases, for example.
What if we took all of the concerns,
the model, the view and
the view controller concerns shove them
together for very small components?
So instead of having this idea of like,
I have a counter and the UI,
the counter really lives in the view.
And the connection layer lives
in the view controller and
the way I store it lives in the model.
What if we put everything for the counter
together in one very small counter
component and
then everything's in one component?
So that's the idea here is we're
taking the separation of concerns and
we're breaking it down across components,
and
we're making components
that are very small.
The one component does one thing and
does it really well.
And then we'll make lots of components and
will compose components
of other components.
That's the React method that's
the React way of thinking.
So you're going to find that we're going
to put the view which is the HTML.
You can put the style in here too if you
want to use something like Tailwind which
will use an intermediate react.
Or you can put CSS modules or SASS or
whatever you can it will put that all
together for one little component.
So this pet component, if there's ever
a problem with pet or it's not displaying
correctly or the data is not translating
correctly or something like that.
We know it's here.
It's in this component we know
exactly where to go to the bucket and
that's really, really powerful, right?
Exactly how to debug your components.
Okay,diatribe over.
I don't know if I'm supposed to
say that then, but I sai it then.
So here we are.
It's a little weird, right?
Like I know it feels weird writing HTML in
your in your JavaScript but it makes sense
like when you kind of frame it of like
I'm writing code to get this way.
So why don't I just make it look that way
I also say that JSX was not the first time
they tried to do this.
The last ES4 right so there was ES3,
which was forever ago then there was ES5,
which is what I started on.
And there's ES6 there was a last ES4 or
harmony was what it was called.
They actually made a thing called I think
it's like JE4X, J4X something like that.
Anyway, Mozilla tried
to do this way before,
they tried to make an XML a native type
in JavaScript and it just blew up.
And so
it never actually ended up happening but
they did try to do it before.
>> Does the JSX still get transformed
in the Create Element calls?
And because of JSX now we
don't need him or react.
>> Yeah, that's correct.
That's correct assessment.
Anything that you're using JSX now
it's smart enough to say cool,
I'm going to import react for you.
You might have some ESLint problems here?
That's fine.
We'll get to the point where
we'll fix all of ESLint, so
just ignore ESLint for a time.
I'm very good at ignoring
ESLint by the way.
>> That's on renaming JS to JSX.
>> That's a good question,
definitely worth covering here.
So, this is another kind of like argument
that people like to have that no one
should give any cares about.
So there's a school of thought
that basically says like,
if I'm putting JSX in a document,
I should rename this file to be pet.jsx.
And you do get that little
satisfying react logo there, so
that's a good reason, right.
It's not I'm kidding,
it's not a good reason.
And my answer that is I do not care.
I don't care either way.
I used to do it and
old versions of this course I do it and
some tools require you to do it.
So sometimes you just have to do it.
I used to do it more and
I used to care more about it.
I had this idea of like if
I'm using JSX and a file and
I'll name it digests x and
if I'm not that I won't.
Why does that matter?
Why can I not just open the file and
say, there's JSX here?
Why do I need to know in advance
because the name, the JSX is there?
I don't, and then I think it was
Dan Abramov, who's one of the core team
members for React made the point of like,
you don't name it pet.babbel.js.
You don't name it for
all the build tools that have to
work on every file that's pointless.
So why are we putting JSX?
It's a valid point.
So I loop back around to I no longer
care so you can do either way.
I will say that when we get to TypeScript
you have to name it TSX because
that's the build tool requires like
it will not do the transformation
list there's an X on the end.
So in that case it does matter.
So unsurprisingly sorry personally but
my answer is yet again I do not care.
So I just say follow whatever the project
is doing and in this case I just followed
whatever the React core team is following
because that decent opinion, right?
But he won't offend me if I
jump into your project and
there's .JSX this just doesn't matter.
So you can delete this now but
that's what JSX is and
now we get to write you know
much more pleasant looking code.
This is just less dense, right, this
reads like it's about to, like renders.
Which is why I'm a big fan of JSX.
Okay so let's go refactorapp.js.
So we have all of these stuff,
you can just
comment it out and
now we can say const App =,
And we'll say return,
div, h1, Adopt Me.
Pet and then we say pet=Luna,
animal=dog and
breed=havanese.
So, this is a self closing tag, right?
So I'm not going to have anything
between right I'm not gonna have
a pet closing tag here.
Like this, right?
You can with custom components that just
gets passed down as a children prop.
So if I did that, then here in pet.js I'd
have a props.children, which is fine,
you can totally do that.
We'll do it later actually.
But only that this is a void tag or
a self closing tag.
It's self contained,
it contains no children.
This would be valid HTML with its
avoid tag it's not valid JSX.
So you actually have to have
that closing slash there.
So that's a limitation of
JSX just get used to it.
So for example you can have inputs,
right and
inputs you do not have to have the slash
at the end, right of the void tag.
In JSX, you must.
So, get used to that.
>> But not /pet right?
You couldn't do either or?
>> Couldn't.
>> You couldn't do the, like yes.
>> You can leave it like
this this is totally fine.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, if I save it in my no it
doesn't they used to collapse so
prettier used to collapse that it
doesn't know I guess but this is fine.
But that's significantly less keystrokes.
Okay, I'm gonna make
three copies of that and
this one's pepper burger cockatiel and
this is Deutsche Bank.
>> To the cat, which is MCs.
So you can see these props that
you pass down look just like
normal props that you would put on HTML,
right?
So for example, I could say id=my app or
something like that.
And this would be rendered out
as the ID on the app, right?
So these two things work the same way.
So again, I say that would you agree that
this is a lot easier to read than this?
Most people once they start writing JSX,
they're like okay I
feel a little bit gross putting
my HTML in my Java scripts, but
this is pretty cool so I'd say stick to it
I can delete that instead of having
the React.create element here,
you can just have app, like that.
But just keep in mind, the only black
magic here is this is getting
translated to React.create element.
And now that I've shown you all this,
we are never going to talk about
Create Element again,
we're just gonna pretend to doesn't exist.
You'll never have to know that
that's the name of the API.
You'll never write Create Element
directly, ever again.
One you'll notice that I'm getting app and
pet warnings.
It's like hey, pets imported,
but not used anywhere.
The ad is, right?
Of course it is.
We have not augmented, ESLint to the point
where it can understand JSX code yet,
which is we're about to do that.
But before we do that, does anyone
have any questions about the app.js or
anything like that or JSX in general.
Yeah?
>> It's maybe a little too granular but
if you just passed an app to render,
you would just pass in the function
right you have to put it in.
>> Yeah, so what if you did this?
>> Yeah.
>> What's a good example?
It'd be going to get your passport stamped
and they just handed you the stairs.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah, right?
Or you ordered a car and
they're just like,
here's a line of cars called Civics,
right?
And you wouldn't actually get a car,
you would just the the amorphous
concept of specifics.
>> Yes, okay.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Just generally not what you want,
right?